RCSL No: 44-RT2061
Edition: September 1983

Author: Steen Nørgaard
Jan Nielsen

® SERVICE - CENTER
ØSTERGADE 38
J) 4000 ROSKILDE

Title:

Testsystem for the RC701/RC702
Version 1.1
User's Guide

§ REGNECENTRALEN

C af 1979

RCSL No 42-i 2164

Keywords:

RC701/RC702, Test Programs.

Abstract: This manual describes the testsystem and the testprograms for the
RC701/RC702.
The testprograms described in this manual are: the ram test, the
ram controller test, the dma test, the ctc test, the fdc test, the
pio test, the sio test, the fdd test, the wdc test, the fdd relia-
bility test, the crt test, and the wdd reliability test.
(48 printed pages)
Copyright © 1983, A/S Regnecentralen af 1979
RC Computer A/S
& Printed by A/S Regnecentralen af 1979, Copenhagen
a Users of this manual are cautioned that the specifications contai-
på ned herein are subject to change by RC at any time without prior no-
= tice. RC is not responsible for typographical or arithmetic errors
2 which may appear in this manual and shall not be responsible for
[sm

any damages caused by reliance on any of the materials presented.

TABLE OF CONTENTS PAGE

l. INTRODUCTION @eeeestsoeveeeeeeeeeeeeeveseeevoeeeeeseve7eeecg eee e 8 8 ee @ @ |
1.1 Load and Start @eeeeeevoeveveoeveeoeoeeoeoeeeeeseeeeveeevee eee ee @ ]

2. THE TESTS @eeeoeoeeee eevee eoeeseeveeoeevseveeeeeseeeseeseeeevneeeeveeee8 8 028 @ 3

3 e THE TESTROUTER eeeeseoeeveeeeve eee eveeeaevseee2e02080880808080 oe @eeeseoenen e028
3 e | Switch Parameters eeoeoeoeseveevecoeoeveeoeeeeoseeoseeeeveees 8 8 6 e 6 @
3 e 2 Keyboard Management eeoeeeveevoees eevee eevee eeeaoneeneneen eee 80 @

3.3 Output @eeoeoeoceaevoeevp eee eeveeeeeveee eee eeeoeeeseeveen eee eee ee 8 8

NYN oO Pp A

3.4 Specialities @eeeeseeveoevoeveeoseesvseeseeeeeeveeeeneeneee7e eee 8 6 @

4 e THE MEMORY TEST eeseeoeoeveeveeseeoseeeeeeevneeeessevoeeveeeeevevneene7 eee 8
4 e 1 PROM Checksum Test eeoeoeeseeosvpeeoeeeeeeeeeeeseee een ee 8088 6 @ 8
4 e 2 RAM Test eeeoeeveevseevsee eevee eseeeeeeseeeeesvseeeeeveeee eee 8

00

5. MEMORY REFRESH TEST .ccccccccccccccccccscccccsssccccsece§ Il
6. DMA TEST seere eee eee eee eee eee eee 12
Te CIC TEST seere eee eee eee 13
8. FDC TEST cccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccccsses 14

9. PIO TEST eeeeeeeveeeeeeeeeseevneeeeeeeeeoev eevee evseeven7e eee e888 O88 @ 15
9.1 Inserting Testcable ……6…6S6S6…ES…E…EE0ee0eeeeeeeeeeeeeedteeeeee 15

10. SIO TEST eseeeevneveeeeeevoeveeevneeeseeeeveeeeeeeeeveeeeveeeeeevee eee 8 16
1 0) e 1 Modem Signal Response Beseeeeeeebeee eee ] 6
] 0 e 2 SIO Channels Test eeoeoeovoeeev eves e288 . eeoeoeeveveoeveeeese8de ] 7

10.3 Baud Rate Measure @eeeeoeemveteseseseveeeeseeveseve7eeee828 F888 8 @ 18

11. FDD TEST eeoeeevees eevee eseeee eevee eeveeeeev eevee eeveeeee eevee eee ee8 19

11.1 FDD Test Error Messages @eeeeseoevoeoeeoeeeeseseeeeseeveeneeeve @ 20

12. WDC TEST eevee eveeevoeveveeeeeeeeveeeveeevneeseeeeveeeeee eevee e ee ee 23

12.1 WDC Test Error Messages @eeeseeoevoeoeeeoseeeeeseeeseeeeeneoe@ 24
ii

TABLE OF CONTENTS (continued)

PAGE

13.

14.

15.

16.

FDD RELIABILITY TEST @eese@eeooeoeaoe vp eseseeseeveeseveseoeseeseeeoevn es eee eed
] 3 e 1 Drive Reliability Test Boeceecee6ebeebeebeeceebedeebeeebeCebeeetee
] 3 e 2 Diskettetest @eeeeoeeoodoeeoeesseeoe eos eeovoeeeesvseeveeseoeeeeneneee es eo 8

CRT TEST eeeeeoecoeoseevpesvseeeseeeeseeneoeeevseev osevsesesvee ee eee e088 0 @

WDD RELIABILITY TEST @eeeaeeaoeeoeoeoewseeoevoeeeeoevoeveeeeeveaesoseeeneeece8
15.1 Drive Reliability Test @eeaeeeeoeeoeoeeeeoeoeveseevueeee 8888 8

15.2 Disk Test … O eee Se SoS So eDbedoeeaseeeesaeseeerecas

ERROR CODES @eesaeeaeoceoseoeoevpeseeosveeseeeveeeeveeeeeeeenseeaeg ee eee 8 6 @

27
30
31

34

36

39

39

4]

INTRODUCTION 1.

1.1

This mamual describes the diagnostic test programs for the RC700

microcomputer.

The test programs are testing the basic functions of the differ-
ent parts of the hardware in the computer.

The sequence of the different test programs in the test system is
organized with rising complexity. As far as possible, no part of
the hardware is used before it is tested.

If an error appears then make some retries to see, if the error

is permanent.

Load and Start 1.1

The test system is delivered on two flexible disks, a minidisk-
ette and a maxidiskette, and in two PROM versions, a 4K PROM and
as 2 x 2K PROM's.

Starting the test system from flexible disk:

- insert the diskette in the drive, push reset button and the
tests start aitomatically.

Starting the test system situated in PROM's:

PROM system 1 (2 x 2K PROM)
These two PROM's are to be used with MIC702 and MIC703.

Turn off the power, remove the hood, install PROM (ROB361) in
PROGRAMABLE ROM O socket and PROM (ROB362) in PROGRAMABLE ROM
1 socket. Turn on the power again. RESET will start the tests

automatically.

PROM system 2 (4K PROM)
This PROM is to be used with MIC703, if print modif is made,
and MIC704.

Turn off the power, remove the hood, install PROM (ROB363) in
PROGRAMABLE ROM O socket. Turn on the power again. RESET will
start the tests aitomatically.

Due to the limited storage capacity in the PROM's, only some of
the tests are available. It is the tests which have connection to
the flexible disk drives. The tests are: RAM test, DMA test, CIC
test and FDD test.

THE TESTS . 2.

The testsystem described in this manual consists of 12 tests. The
tests are ran under control of a testrouter, which has the pur-
pose of administering the mode in which a particular test is ran.
The ten tests are:

Memory test

Memory refresh test
DMA test

CTC test

FDC test

PIO test

FDD test

SIO test

WDC test

FDD reliability test
CRT test

WDD reliability test
THE TESTROUTER 3.

3.1

The testrouter is a central program which main purpose is to com
pute the address of the next test in the sequence. The address of
the next test is derived from a variable holding the present

testnumber and normally incremented by me. Every time a test has

finished and is not in looping mode, the testrouter is entered.

Switch Parameters 3.1

The variable holding the test mmber also contains four switch

bits, by which the testrouter decides how to administer the
tests.

test No
h Ik os
aoeu
1 oy p
t p ber
oO Pp
r
i
n
t
halt: O: halt on error
1: proceed though error
loop: 0: sequential, big loop of all tests
1: looping in the present test
keyb on: O: the system has not been informed about an instal-

led keyboard
1: a key on the keyboard has been struck at least

once

supr print: 0: messages are printed on the display

1: no messages are printed (usable for fast looping) e
3.2

Initial values of the switch parameters are all zeroes.

Keyboard Management

To enter the keyboard management is only possible when a strucked
key has informed the system that a keyboard is connected. When
this has happened, the testrouter answers with the valid capital
letters and digits.

Valid keys are as follows:

H: set halt bit to 0
R: set halt bit to 1
L: set loop bit to 1
G: set loop bit to 0
S: set suppress print bit to 1
P: set suppress print bit to 0

(Please note that capital letters are used)

<esc>: will stop execution.

This is also the fact for any other key. Striking the <return>
key will have the test system reentering the looping or running
state.

Numbers between O-F will insert a new test mimber into the vari-
able.

All other keys will give no response.

If me for example wants to loop in test 6 and not oo into a HALT
state if error, then strike the keys R, L, 6 (not necessarily
this sequence). Furthermore if one wants to test fast for measur-
ing purpose, one can suppress print by typing S. Suppress print
means that nothing from now on will be written into the screen-
buffer.

3.2
Relationship between the test numbers and actual tests is as fol-
lows in the diskette versions:

Test No Test name Test loop

6) RAM test yes

1 Memory refresh test yes

2 DMA test yes

3 CIC test yes

4 FDC test yes

5 PIO test yes

6 SIO test yes

7 FDD test

8 WDC test See chapter 10 and 11
9 WDC test **) Have to be selected by
A FDD reliability test the testnunber

B CRT test

C WDD reliability test

D not used yet

E not used yet

F not used yet

**) Press the key
WDC test, see

"9" will force the testsystem to perform the

chapter 12.

%e

Relationship between the test minbers and actual tests is as

follows in PROM versions:

Test No Test name Test loop

PROM checksum and RAM test yes
DMA test yes
CTC test yes

FDD test See chapter 10
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used
not used

ymuo AwWpPwuo ON DMN fF WIN — O

The test mumbers not used yet will force the test system to re-
turn to test muimber 0.

Output | 3.3

3.4

The testrouter will respond with some aitput. This is a version
number and a test nimber. It also responds with the state of the
test. This could be either running, stopped, looping or halted.

Specialities 3.4

The testrouter has a waiting point of 3 seconds when entered from
the test mimber 0 to give the user time to key in some input to

Change parameters.
THE MEMORY TEST © 4.

The memory test consists of two tests. A PROM checksum test and a

PROM Checksum Test 4.1

A check on the contents of the PROM (containing tests) is per-
formed by adding the contents of all locations in the PROM and
Checking that the result is FF (Hex).

If a difference from FF (Hex) is found, an attempt is made to

write an error message on the first line of the display.

The error message has the following layaut:

<RC700 TESTSYSTEM chksum err>

Note that when loaded from flexible discs, the checksum is check-

4.

RAM test.
4.1

ed on the loaded image.
4.2

RAM Test 4.2

The memory test thereafter performs a test of the dynamic RAM
memory. Of course, all memory cells are tested by the memory test

(all variables are kept in CPU registers).

First the upper part (addresses higher than the last PROM ad-
dress) of the memory is tested. If this was found OK, the test is
moved to this memory area and the memory space shaded by PROM is
tested.

The test pattern for the dynamic RAM memory consisting of chips
of 1 bit x 16 k is three times 00 followed by three times FF
(Hex). When all memory cells have been tested, they are again
tested with the inversed pattern. This means that all bits are

tested for "zero" and "one" insertion. It is the most convenient

eo

pattern for discovering addressing errors because this modulus 3

pattern will not be repeated equivalent in a higher modulus ad-
dress.

If an error occurs, a message will be written on the first line

of the display. The layout is the following:
<RC700 TESTSYSTEM mem err ha la ex re>

Where "ha" is high address, "la" is low address, "ex" is expected
value and "re" is received value. All mmbers are in hexadecimal

notation. (To find any defective chip, consult fig. 1).

When both the PROM checksum test and the RAM memory test are ter-
minated, an attempt is made to write on the display (whether
there has been an error or not). This is done as simple as poss-
ible without any standard program (without interrupt service). On
the first 17 positions of the first line, the identification of
the system type will be written followed by a possible error mes-
sage.

The total turn around time for the RAM-test is 7.5 seconds.
vw

10

ar
”

oO

ad

MIE
Balle

SODE

É

i)

i

H

I

EMEEDDDD :

: (EESEEER :

la rec

BIT BIT BIT BIT
7-4 3-0 7-4 3-0 7-4 3-0. 7-4 3-0
00 600

O-16 k
3 F FF
40 00

16—32 k
7 F FF
80 00

3248 k
BF FF
CO 600

48-64 k
FF FF

Figure 1: Layout of 64K RAM memory.

MEMORY REFRESH TEST / 5.

The dynamic memory refresh test is a test which verifies the
function of the memory controller chip.

It writes a pattern in memory consisting of an XOR of high and
low address part. The pattern is written from the memory address
8000H until the hexadecimal address: FOOOH (where the display

image starts).

When the pattern has been written, the test waits for 5 seconds

in a waiting loop before it performs a check of data.

The main purpose of this test is to discover modification of data
happened in the delay time, due to malfunction of the refresh
counting in the memory controller.

Possible error message is:

<data modified in byte xx xx exp: xx rec: xx>

Output is placed on the fourth line of the display.
DMA TEST 7

The DMA test loop is testing DMA transfers between channel 0 and
Channel 1. This is done as a memory to memory transport. Channel

1] is receiving and channel 0 is transmitting.

The transmitted pattern is a mffer of 1 k containing a counting
pattern. The pattern is as follows: 00 FF FE FD etc. repeated 4

times.

When the transport is finished, the receiving biffer is checked
against the transmitted buffer byte by byte.

The DMA test will write its messages on the fifth line of the
display.

Apart from the identification of the test, the possible messages
from the DMA test are:

<OK>
<TC timeout 200 ms>

<data error, byte no: xx xx exp: xx rec: xx>

All mumbers are in hexadecimal notation. "TC timeout ms" shows
that the terminal count bit for channel 1 in the DM status re-
gister has not been set within 200 ms. and that the transport is

therefore not successful.

If the screeen is blanked or if the errormessages continue to
appear after several retries the DMA-controller should be
replaced.

13

CTC TEST 2

Neo’

This program is testing the counter timer circuit which is used
for baud rate generator and as interrupt circuit for the CRT and
the FDC controller.

It is tested that the circuit will generate interrupt and that

the vector (interrupt address) is correct.

The four channels O, 1, 2 and 3 are tested. Channels O and 1 are
tested in counter mode, counting on the fixed input clock giving
interrupt after approx. 423 us. Channels 2 and 3 are tested in
timer mode. The timer is for channel 2 started by the interrupt
signal from the CRT controller. For channel 3 the timing is
started automatically.

The test is based on a timeout loop, so it is checked if the in-
terrupt was received within a specified time (300 ms.). It is
also checked that only the specified channel interrupts.

The test can end up with 2 different error messages:

<illegal interrupt, port: xx>
meaning that another channel than the specified has interrupted.

<no interrupt, ch:>

meaning that the test has timed aut before interrupt was receiv-
ed.

Texts will be written on the sixth line of the display.
14

FDC TEST /

The FDC test is a small test loop included in the big sequential
loop of tests.

When the test is entered, it is checked that the main status re-
gister of the FDC has bit 7 set to indicate that the controller

is ready.

After that, an invalid command is sent to the controller to see

if it responds correctly.

The following three error messages could appear:

<not ready receive-transmit>:
bit 7 of the main status register was not set when entering the
test.

<wrong data-direction>:
bit 6 of the main status register has wrong polarity.
Push the RESET button and try again.

<fault stat. reg.>:
status register 0 should indicate an invalid command (bit 7 = 1,

bit 6 = 0).

Texts will be written om the seventh line of the display.

15

PIO TEST £ 9.

9.1

To run this test it is necessary to use the testcable CBL936,
where plug J3 of the cable is installed in plug J1003 (PARALLEL
OUT) of the computer, and plug J4 of the cable is installed in
plug J1004 (KEYBOARD) of the computer.

If no testcable is installed the testsystem will respond with
received and expected data and "pio test aborted".

To test if a testcable is installed the program transmits the
byte E5 (hexadecimal) at the parallel ait port and checks the
keyboard port. If the keyboard port holds the byte E5 it is as-
sumed that the cable is installed, otherwise not.

If the test is ran in looping a rolling counting pattern of 256
bytes is transmitted and checked against the received pattern.

The test can end up with 3 different error messages:
<no interrupt from port A>
means that an interrupt from the keyboard port has not occur-
red within 20 T-cycles
<channel B interrupt>
means that an interrupt from the parallel cut port has inter-
rupted
<rec exp> received and expected data

means that the transmitted and received bytes are not equal.

Inserting Testcable 9.1

Installing the testcable may cause a strobe signal to the key-
board. If this happens, it will stop the testsystem (it is recog-
nized with the state: stopped) and it is necessary to start the
test up again with the keyboard.
10.

16

SIO TEST. /

10.1

The SIO test is testing the modem signals and data transports on
both SIO channels.

Test message (9th and 10th line on display):

SIO-test: <channel identifications>: <OK or error message>
<channel identification> <baudrate>

<channel identification>
Identifies the message as belonging to a specific channel;
shown as soon as the channel has completed its transfer.
Channels are: line 1:, line 2:.

<error message>
The error messages are explained in the sections 10.1 and

10.2.

<baud rate>
Explained in section 10.3.

Modem Signal Response

For the LINE I and LINE II SIO the responses of DIR and RTS are
tested on the DCD and CTS pins. Loop plugs as shown in fig. 2

must be installed q@m the terminal LINE connections.

PIN
Rrs | 4] ->
cts | 5| <—
DSR | 6] <4
DATA} 2} —
mara; 3| —
om |20 | ->
pcp | 8| <4
a in! <

Figure 2: LINE test loop plug (CBL998).

10.

10.1

10.2

17

If an error occurs on the modem signals CTS or DCD the received
hex. value should be interpreted as shown in fig. 3.

Error messages from this part of the test:

CTS or DCD error, exp: <xx> rec: <xx>
Received value differs from expected; cf. fig. 3.

76543210

CTS

Figure 3: Modem signal response.

SIO Channels Test 10.2

When the modem signal responses have been checked, testing of
LINE I and LINE II SIO channels is initiated.

The test procedure is as follows: each of the two channels is
started and the control is handed over to the interrupt system
and a timeout loop.

The LINE I and LINE II SIO channels are initiated to 9600 bps by
the CTC.

Both channels transmit a databuffer of 4 k bytes with a counting
pattern (00 FF FE FD etc.). The test loop will check the received
buffers as soon as the patterns have been transferred. It also
monitors both channels for timeout.
10.3

18

Error messages from the SIO channel test:

illegal interrupt, port: <xx>
An interrupt has occurred from a device that was not intended
to interrupt, or the SIO has given a status interrupt (any
Change on the modem signals during data transfer will respond

with this message).

parity error
A special receive interrupt with parity bit has occured.

receiver overrun

A special receive interrupt with overrun bit has occured.

data error, byte no: <xx xx> exp: <xx> rec: <xx>
The received buffer does not contain the expected pattern.

Baud Rate Measure

While the LINE I and LINE II SIO are active, their respective
baud rates will be measured. This is done over a period of 1 sec.
by having the CTC channel 3 giving interrupt every (approx.) 16
msec. The number of bytes received in 1 sec. is multiplied by 11
and written (8 data bits, 1 start, 1 stop and 1 parity bit).

Beware that when one channel has finished its transfer, inter-
rupts are disabled while the buffer is checked. This means that

other channels’ baud rates can be a little less than else.

10.3

11.

LH? 19

FDD TEST 7 11.

This test is testing the flexible disk controller and up to four
connected drives, either 8" or 5 1/4". It is not a complete test
of the flexible disk, but rather a fast verification of the basic
functions of the controller and the drives connected to it.

This test is a very tough test of the drive, and errors normally
appear. To check the drive use the FDD RELIABILITY TEST (see
Chapter 12).

If the system has not been informed that a keyboard is connected,
this test is a part of the big sequential loop. If the system has
been informed that a keyboard is connected, this test has to be
selected by its mumber (number 7); that is, the big sequential
loop does not involve this test.

Please note that before the FDD test is entered, a writeable
diskette should be placed in the drive. For diskette stations
connected to an RC700 Piccolo, it is recommendable only to use
properly formatted diskettes of the type dual head, double side,
soft sector, double density with the format 15 sectors/512 bytes
on 8" diskettes and 9 sectors/512 bytes on 5 1/4" diskettes.

The test will initialize the controller to a step rate time of
maximum 20 ms., a head unload time of maximum 160 ms. and a head
load time of maximum 40 ms.

When the testing is initiated, the units which are ready, will be
recalibrated. If no units are ready, the text <* all drives: not
ready> will be written, and the test enters an idle state. When-
ever a unit changes its state from not ready to ready, the test-
ing will start on this wit.

If minidrives are used, the test will use some seconds to find
out the drives which are ready.

Because of the READY signal when the drives are 5 1/4" diskette

drives, they are only asked one time, if they are ready or not.
This is done by trying a recalibration of the drives. Once a
drive has been known ready or not, the testprogram expects it to
be in this state throughaut the test, also in looping. Every
drive connected to the system is tested.

The testing sequence for a unit is first a recalibration and then
the cyclic sequence, seek, write, read. Not the complete diskette
is tested, but only the following 16 tracks are used for data re-
covery checkout:

For 8" units: 5, 60, 6, 59, 7, 58, 8, 40, 57, 9, 56, 36, 61,
37, 38, 39.

For 5 1/4" units: 5, 32, 6, 30, 7, 28, 8, 15, 31, 9, 27, 16, 29,
17, 25, 24.

The sector number varies from 1 throughout 9. On the first track
the data checkout will be performed on sector 1, on the second

track on sector 2 and so on.

The test pattern written on the diskette is a counting pattern of
512 bytes, which is transferred via the DMA controller channel 1.
When the data is read from the diskette, it is placed in a buffer

in the memory, and the write- and read-buffers are compared.

When the test is in loop mode, each byte of the test buffer is

incremented by one for each pass.

If an error is detected one of the following errortexts till be

written.

11.1 FDD Test Error Messages 11.1

<*fault in main status reg>

Indicates an error in the controller main status register bit
7 or 6.

21

<not ready>

Indicates that the ready state for a specified drive has been
set to not ready (bit 3 of status register 0).

<write protected>
Indicates that the write protect bit has been set (bit 1 of
status register 1).

<timecut>

The specified drive has not responded to an operation with an

interrupt within approx. 2 s.

<*fault in fdc xx>

Indicates that the status bits of status register 0 are in an
invalid state. xx is a hexadecimal munber showing the contents

of this register.

<seek error>
The drive could not find the specified track of the command
issued (bit 5 of status register 0).

<command abort>
The command issued was invalid. The conmand was never started.
It will appear if an earlier command was not terminated cor-
rectly (bit 7 = 1 and bit 6 = 0 of status register 0).

<door open>
The drive door has been opened during execution.

<recalibrate error>
The seek end bit did not occur after a recalibrate conmand
(bit 5 of status register 0).

<track O signal not found>
The track 0 signal fails to occur after 77 step pulses (bit 4
of status register 0).

<missing address mark in datafield>
No address mark in the datafield (bit 0 of status register 2).
22

<missing address mark in id-field>
No address mark is detected in the id field (bit O of status

register 1).

<bad cylinder>
The contents of the cylinder mimber on the medium are differ-
ent from the internal register and cylinder mimber appears to

be FF Hex (bit 1 of status register 2).

<wrong cylinder>

The contents of the cylinder mimber on the medium are differ-

ent from the internal register (bit 4 of status register 2).

<cannot find sector>
The controller cannot find the sector specified in the inter-

nal register (bit 2 of status register 1).

<crc fault in id-field>
The CRC check discovered an error in the id field (bit 5 of
status register 1, when bit 5 of status register 2 is zero).

<crce fault in data field>
The CRC check discovered an error in the data field (bit 5 of
both status register 1 and 2).

<overrun>
If the controller is not services by the DMA controller within

a certain time interval, the error occurs (bit 4 of status re-

gister 1).

<access beyond last sector>
The controller has tried to access a sector beyond the final
sector of a cylinder (bit 7 of status register 1).

When one of the mentioned error messages, which has relation to a
specific drive occurs, a heading is written before the message

identifying the drive. The drives are mimbered 0 through 3.

Texts will be written on the eighth line of the display.

12.

23

This test is testing the WDC controller and up to two connected
Winchester drives. It is not a complete test of the drives but
rather a fast verification of the basic functions of the control-

ler and the drives connected to it.

The test is only run if a controller is installed. This is sig-
nalled to the program by setting the switch S6 on the MIC board.

If the system has not been informed that a keyboard is installed,
this test will be a part of the big sequential loop if the switch
S6 is set.

:

H

3

PP bddde
ae |

i

|

Figure 4: The switches 0-6 (here switch 6 is set).

12.
12.1

24

The test will start with drive 0 and after finishing all the
operation the program will check if there is a drive 1 connected, e

and in that case repeat the æerations on drive 1.

The wdc-test starts with a test of the databus to the wdc. The
test writes a register and reads it again. Only if the
transmitted and the received bytes are equal the test starts.
Otherwise the received and the expected bytes are written on the
screen and the wdc-test is aborted.

The testing sequence for a unit is first a restore and then the

cyclic sequence, format, seek, write, read. The whole Winchester

disk is not tested kut only cylinder 0 and 1. The system tests

the winchester from head number 2 until head minber 6. This will e
avoid destruction of the configurationsector. A track contains 17

sectors and a sector contains 512 bytes. It is formatted with an

interleave rate at 4:1 and no bad sectors.

The testpattern written is a counting pattern from 00 to FF
twice.

The data are transferred via the DMA controller channel 0. In
testing the CRC circuit the data read from the disk are placed in
a buffer in the memory (E200-E3FF) and is compared with the
writebuffer (EOOO-E1FF).

WLC Test Error Messages 12.1 e

<restore error>

Indicates that the error bit in the status register is set.

After a RESTORE command, and the "track O error" bit in the

errorregister is not set.

<track 0 error>
The track 0 error bit is set during a RESTORE command if,
after issuing 1023 stoppulses, TRACK 000 line is not asserted
by the drive.

25

<format error>
The error bit is set in the status register after a format

operation.

<write error>
The error bit is set in the status register after a write
operation, and the “aborted command" and the "id not found"

bits are not set.

<aborted write command>
A valid write conmand is issued but cannot be executed based

on the statusinformation from the drive.

. <data mark not found>

Will be written after a READ SECTOR command if, after success-
fully identifying the ID field, the DATA ADDRESS MARK was not
detected within 16 bytes of the ID field.

<aborted read command>
Indicates that a valid read command has been received that

cannot be executed based on status information from the

drive.

<id not found>
Indicates the ID field was not found.

<cerc fault id-field>
<crc fault data field>

<timeout>

An interrupt was not detected within a specified period.

<bad block detect error>

This bit must not be set, while all of the sectors are
formatted as good sectors.

<illegal interrupt, channel 3>
The floppy channel on the CIC has interrupted illegal.
<crce error>

Means that the CRC-check and the buffer check do not match.

13.

27

Lr.
FDD RELIABILITY TEST

This test is not a part of the big testloop; that is, it is
necessary to select the test by the testnumber A.

Because it is a reliability test, the program makes some error-
statistics. The errors are divided into two groups: soft errors

and hard errors.

When an error appears, it is counted as a soft error, and the
program tries the operation again (up until the mmbers of
retries), if the same error appears in every retry, it is counted
as a hard error and the soft error counter is decremented by the
numbers of retries.

When the test is running (after some questions have been answer-

ed) it is possible to stop or to leave the test. If an "H" (capi-
tal letter) is pushed, the test will stop. To continue the test,

press the "RETURN" key. Pressing the "F" (capital letter) will

cause a return to the testrouter.
Pressing capital "R" will always restart the reliability test.

When the test is running, a screen-image with the errorpossibil-
ities is shown.

The first line shows the name of the test, which can be either
"FDD RELIABILITY TEST" or “DISKETTE TEST".

The number (0 or 1) after the error text refers to the
headnumber.

The lines are as follows:

PASS: passnunber.

RETRIES : shows the number of retries, which
has to be specified. In the same
line the text "SOFT, HARD, HEAD,
CYLINDER, SECTOR" is shown. In the

13.
28

"SOFT" column the soft errors are
accumilated. In the "HARD" column
the hard errors are accumulated.
"HEAD, CYLINDER, SECTOR" these
three columns show for each error,

where the last error appeared.

NOT DETECT ID MARK: the fdc cannot detect the id
address mark.

NOT DETECT DATA MARK: the fdc cannot detect the data
address mark.

NOT FIND SECTOR: the fdc cannot find the specified
sector.

CRC ERROR IN ID: the fdc has detect an CRC error in
the id field.

CRC ERROR IN DATA: the fdc has detect an CRC error in
the data field.

SEEK ERROR: incremented if seek error in every
retry.

TIMEOUT: interrupt does not occur within one
second.

CRC-READING ERROR: the CRC is not properly read.

FDC ERROR: wrong status from the fdc.

WRITE ERROR: the accumulated errors in write

command, and where the last error
appeared.

READ ERROR: the accumilated errors in read
command, and where the last error
appeared.

CURRENT: shows the current head-, cylinder

and sectoraddress.

There are two possibilities with the reliability test. The two
possibilities are either a drive test or a diskette test. Figure

5 shows the structure in the test.

Ten, or eleven questions have to be answered before the test
starts. If an illegal answer has been given, a question-mark is

responded until a legal muimber is given.

29

When a question is correctly answered, the next question appears

on the screen. The first nine questions are:

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

7)

drive (0/1)
The drive on which the test is wanted. Push "0" or "1" to
select drivenumber.

mini/maxi/quad (0/1/2)
Selects the drive type. Minidrive, maxidrive or 96 TPI drive.
Push "0", "1" or "2" to select drivetype.

single/double density (0/1)

Single density = 128 bytes/sector.
Double density = 512 bytes/sector.
Push "0" or "1" to select density.

single/double sided (0/1)
Push "0" or "1" to get next question.

from track
Has to be answered with two digits. If the tracknumber is
bigger than the maximum for the selected drivetype (question

1), the maximum is inserted. The maximum is for:

mini: 36 (0-36: 37 tracks)
maxi: 76 (0-76: 77 tracks)
96TPI: 79 (0-79: 80 tracks)

to track
Has to be answered with two digits. If the tracknunber is
bigger than the maximum for the selected drivetype (question

1), the maximum is inserted. (See question munber 5).

steprate ms (01-16)

Two digits have to be typed to select the steprate for the
drive. If the drive is a minidrive or a 96 TPI drive, the
typed steprate will be miltiplied by 2. Recommended steprates
are for the RC702 minidrives: 20 ms (type 10), the RC702
maxidrive: 3 ms (type 03), the RC703 96 TPI: 6 ms (type 03).

13.1

8) retries (0-9)
Determines how many retries which will be done if error.
Push a digit to select the mimber of retries.

9) diskettetest no/yes (0/1)

Push "I" to select the diskettetest.
Push "0" to select the drive reliability test

Drive Reliability Test

If a reliability test of the flexible disk drive is chosen, the

tenth question is:

10) format no/yes (0/1)
Push "1" to format the diskette.
Push "0" if no formatting is wanted.

The formatting is made due to the answers of the questions. The
formatting is not limited to the interval [from track, to track],
but to the whole diskette if double sided is chosen, or to the

whole side if single sided is chosen.

If mini or 96 TPI drive is selected, the diskette is formatted
with 16 sectors/track and 128 bytes/sector in single density. In
double density the values are 10 sectors/track and 512
bytes/sector.

If maxidrive is selected, the diskette is formatted with 26 sec-
tors/track and 128 bytes/sector in single density. In double den-
sity the values are 15 sectors/track and 512 bytes/sector.

The first operation in each pass is alternate seekings in the

specified interval.

When the seekings are finished, the write and read of a sector
begins. The program starts with sector 1 of the specified first
track (from back).

13.1

13.2

31

After a write of a sector it is checked if the writeoperation was
properly performed. If the write was OK, a read of the sector is nm
performed. If the write was not, a read of the sector does not
take place, but the program continues with a write of the next

sector.

When the last sector in a track has been written and read (if
possible), the same track is used on the other side, if double
sided is chosen. When the cylinder is finished, the cylindernum-

ber is incremented.

When the last cylinder in the specified interval is finished, the
passnumber is incremented and the operations start again, begin-

ning with seekings.

Diskettetest 13.2

If the diskettetest is chosen, the next two questions are:

10) read preformat no/yes (0/1)
Push "1" to read the preformat.
Push "0" if no reading of the preformat is wanted.

11) format no/yes (0/1)
Push "1" to format the diskette
Push "0" if no formatting is wanted.

After formatting the diskette the new format is read.

When reading the preformat and the new format, the reading starts

at cylinder 1. The reading is made due to the answers of the
cylinder.

The reason of reading the preformatting is to check the format-

ting done by the manufacturer (minidiskettes are not preformat-
ted).
32

If a hard error appears when reading the formatting, the reading
is stopped with the message "HARD ERROR". To contime a push of a
key (not "R", "H" or "F") is required.

After action has been taken due to the answers of "read
preformat" and "format", the specified interval is read. The
reason that the interval is only read, is that the datapattern is
not refreshed. This makes it possible to check the degradation in

magnetism.

33

YN
drive (0/1)
e mini/maxi/quad (0/1/2)
single/double density (0/1)
single/double side (0/1)
from track 2 digits
to track 2 digits
steprate ms (01-16) 2 digits
retries (0-9)
Questions to
be answered
no iskett yes
drive test test
i Y '
©} read
format (0/1) preformat (0/1)
format (0/1)
—— — — _ J i i i eee ee ee _ lt ——_ — ww ow
Å
due to due to answer
answer format read of "read pre-
of diskette preformat P
"format" x format"
; due to answer
seer in from yes format
track to track diskette of "format
no
v
e write sec. in ast sector read
interval from

track to track

no

yes

read
sector

update sec.
cylinder .
head

last cylinder new format
kk

—“

read interval
from track
to track

* program halts so the information
can be read.
Push "RETURN" to continue.

Figure 5: The structure in the reliability test.
14.

34

CRT TEST 73

This is a visual looping test which is not a part of the test-
loop but has to be selected by the testnunber B (capital letter).
When the test has finished, it starts again.

When the test is running, it is possible to stop it, if the "H"

key (capital letter) is pressed. To continue, press the "RETURN"
key. To return to the testrouter, press "FE" (capital letter).

The following should be seen:

1:

The character-PROM is written for a few seconds.

A special code will blank the right side of the screen.
The character-PROM is written.

A special code will blank the lower half of the screen.
The character-PROM is written.

The screen is filled with "H". To adjust the screen "H" is
often used.

Cursor test. The cursor will start in the upper left corner
and move down towards the lower right corner. All four cur-
sortypes are tested, with the character-PROM as background.

The cursor test starts with a cursor, which appears as a
blinking reverse video block. The next cursortype is a blink-
ing underline. The third cursortype is a non-blinking reverse

block. The last cursor is a non-blinking underline.

Field attributes test. The field attributes are tested on the
character—PROM. The 25 lines appear as follows:

a: 3 lines with blink

b: 3 lines with reverse video

35

c: 3 lines with blink and reverse video
e d: 4 lines with underline
e: 3 lines with underline and blink
f: 3 lines with underline and reverse video

g: 6 lines with underline, blink and reverse video.

9: Test of the dma-channels 2 and 3 and the interrupt from the |
CRT controller. The first half of the screen is supplied by
the dma-channel 2. An asterisk is the last character sent by
this channel. The lower half is supplied by the dma-channel
3. Two asterisks are the last characters sent by this chan-
nel. After channel 3 has finished, an interruptroutine sets

up the channels to screentransfers.
10: The CRT test ends up with the graphic PROM written.

After the graphic PROM is written, the test starts again with 1.

e
15.

36

WDD RELIABILITY TEST © 15.

This test is not a part of the big testloop; that is, it is
necessary to select the test by the testnunber C.

Because it is a reliability test, the program makes some error-
statistics.

When an error appears the controller will try the operation again
up until 16 times.

When the test is running (after some questions have been answer-
ed) it is possible to stop or to leave the test. If an "H"
(capital letter) is pushed, the test will stop. To continue the
test, press the "RETURN" key. Pressing "F" (capital letter) will

cause a return to the testrouter.

Pressing "R" (capital letter) will always restart the reliability
test.

When the test is running, a screen-image with the errorpossibil-

ities is shown.

The first line shows the name of the test, which can be either
"WDD RELIABILITY TEST" or "DISK TEST".

The lines are as follows:

PASS: passnumber
DATA ADDRESS MARK NOT FOUND: the wdc cannot detect the data

address mark.

ABORTED SEEK COMMAND: the seek command cannot be
executed based on status from
the drive.

ABORTED WRITE COMMAND: the write command cannot be

executed based on status from
the drive.

37

ABORTED READ COMMAND:

ID NOT FOUND:

CRC ERROR IN ID:

CRC ERROR IN DATA:

CRC READING ERROR:

BAD BLOCK DETECT ERROR:

SEEK ERROR:

TIMEOUT :

WDC ERROR:

WRITE ERROR:

READ ERROR:

CURRENT:

There are two possibilities with

the read command cannot be
executed based on status from
the drive.

the specified id-field contain-
ing the cylinder, head and

sector nunber was not found.

indicates that a CRC error was

encountered in an id-field.

indicates that a CRC error was

encountered in a data-field.
the CRC bytes were misread.

a bad block mark was erroneous-

ly read.

a seek error was encountered.
a command was not completed
within a specified timeinter-
val.

wrong status from the wdc.

the accumulated errors in write
command, and where the last
error appeared.

the accumulated errors in read
command, and where the last

error appeared.

shows the auirrent head-,

cylinder and sectoraddress.

the reliability test. The two
38

possibilities are either a drive test or a disk test. Figure 6

shows the structure in the test.

Six questions have to be answered before the test starts. If an

illegal answer has been given, a question-mark is responded until

a legal number is given.

When a question is correctly answered, the next question appear

on the screen.

The six questions are:

1)

2)

3)

4)

5)

6)

from head
has to be answered with one digit in the interval from 0 to 5 ©

to head

has to be answered with one digit in the interval from 0 to 5.
If "from head" is bigger than "to head" the two nunbers will
be exchanged

from track
has to be answered with 3 digits. If the tracknunber is bigger
than 191 the 191 will be inserted

to track
has to ke answered with 3 digits. If the tracknunber is bigger
than 191 the 191 will be inserted. If "from track" is bigger ©

than "to track" the two numbers will be exchanged

disk test (only reading) no/yes (0/1)
push 0 to select drive reliability test
push 1 to select disk test

format no/yes (0/1)

push 0 if no formatting is wanted

push 1 to format

The formatting is done due to the answers of "fram head", "to
head", "from track" and "to track". The formatting is perform-
ed only in the specified volume.

15.1

39

Remark that the formatting done with this testprogram is not
compatible with the formatting done by HDFORM.

Drive Reliability Test 15.1

15.2

The operations in each pass are first write a sector, read the
same sector, invert the bitpattern and write and read the sector

again. The read kuffer is compared with the write buffer.

Disk Test 15.2

In this part the specified interval is only read. The read data
are checked for CRC error.
"format"

drive test

40

from head 1 digit
to head 1 digit
from track 3 digits
to track 3 digits
no é yes

format (0/1)

skett

be? 2 8

Questions to

be answered

Nee

write sec. in
interval from

track to track

no

yes

read
sector

update sec.
cylinder

head

Figure 6:

format (0/1)

read interval
from track
to track

The structure in the reliability test.

due to answer

of "format"

16.

41

ERROR CODES 16.

The testrouter outputs an error code, which is specific for the

type of
run the

error discovered on port 50 Hex. This enables the use to
testsystem on a MIC board alone without display. The

error information may then be detected if a device which can de-
code the mimbers is installed on the system his.

The error codes are as follow:

O: OK,

no error

1: PROM checksum error

2: RAM

error

3: data error in DMA test
4: DMA channel 1 has not set the terminal count bit within 200

mS.
5: not
6: not
7: not
8: not
9: not
As: not
B: CTC
C: not
D: not
E: not
F: not
10: not
11: not
12: not
13: not
14: not
15: not
16: not

in DMA test

used

used

used

used

wanted interrupt in CIC test
used

test has timed out without interrupt
used

used

used

used

used

used

used .

used

used

used

used

17: data error in main memory refresh test

18: FOC
19: the
20: FDC

not ready to receive or transmit
wrong data direction in FDC

fault in status register

31: fault in FDC (in FDD test)
42

seek error

FDC command abort

Open door

recalibration error

track O signal not found

missing address mark in data field
bad cylinder

wrong cylinder

missing address mark in ID field
cannot find sector

CRC fault in ID field

CRC fault in data field

drive not ready

overrun in FDC

trying to access beyond last cylinder
drive is write protected

flexible disk drive timeout
flexible disk data error

timeout in WDC test

track 0 error in wdc-test

restore error in wdc-test

format error in wdc-test

aborted write command in wdc-test
id not found in wdc-test

CRC fault in id field in wdc-test
write error in wdc-test

CRC error in wdc-test

data mark not found in wdc-test
aborted read command in wdc—test
CRC error in datafield in wdc-test
bad block detect error in wdc-test

illegal interrupt in wdc-test.

~ RE we

RETURN LETTER

e Title: Testsystem for the RC701/RC702 RCSL No.: 44-RT2061
Version 1.1 User's Guide.
A/S Regnecentralen af 1979/RC Computer A/S maintains a continual effort to im-
prove the quality and usefulness of its publications. To do this effectively we need
user feedback, your critical evaluation of this manual.

Please comment on this manual’s completeness, accuracy, organization, usability,
and readability:

Do you find errors in this manual? If so, specify by page.

How can this manual be improved?

Other comments?

| Name: Title:

Company:
Address:

Date:

Thank you

°

42-1 1288
Ln eee ee eee eee eee eee eee as Fold here ............ ccc eee eee eee ee
Lee eee eee eee wees Do not tear - Fold here and staple ..................
Affix
postage
here
& REGNECENTRALEN
"mm af 1979

Information Department
Lautrupbjerg 1

DK-2750 Ballerup
Denmark

Le ge

